Hail Jesus and Mary, dear subscribers of the YouTube channel of the Association "Croatia for Life".
We are here on Trešnjevka, in the parish of St. Josip, in their premises.
Because this weekend we have a conference for life "Now choose Life",
the 6th in a row organized by our Association.
One of the speakers will be Ruth Rawlins, from the United Kingdom.
Today we will talk to her, we will conduct the conversation in English,
so you will have subtitles below for those who may not understand well.
Let's begin.
Hi Ruth.
Hi Lydia.
I'm so happy to have you here. Thank you for coming to our conference and here in our podcast.
It's wonderful to be here.
I will love that you introduce yourself so people know with whom we are talking.
Okay, so I'm Ruth Rawlins and I've come all the way from London England
and I work in Communications for the Center for bioethical reform UK.
CBR UK for short.
And we're basically working to educate on the humanity of the baby in the womb
and expose the reality of abortion and support women who have been through abortion.
So our podcasts are something like testimony and spiritual talk and also official talk.
Can you please tell us something about your background, childhood, religion and everything
and how did you get involved in the pro-life movement?
Okay.
So, I grew up in a Christian home and I never really heard anything about abortion at church,
it wasn't spoken about.
I remember in school in religious studies we did talk about abortion and writing an essay about it.
And actually funnily enough I found that essay recently
and I noticed that I had written a rape exception, which is interesting.
My views have clearly changed now.
But my parents had put across to me that abortion was wrong
so I knew that it wasn't a good thing.
I knew that it was killing a baby.
And fast forward to when I went to University.
I actually walked away from the Lord.
I think I thought the grass was greener on the other side,
if that saying makes sense in Croatian.
And I just got into a bad relationship, ungodly relationship.
I ended up becoming pregnant in my final year of University
and because I knew that abortion was wrong, it didn't enter my head.
And I'm so grateful to God and to my parents for that because otherwise,
you know, my child might not be here today.
That was my path of coming back to God.
When I had my baby dedicated at church and then I got baptized the next month.
So obviously having a daughter and being a single mother
had some challenges that came with that.
But it was an exciting time for me because I was discovering more and more about God
and fellowship him with lots of other parents and children,
mothers and children at that time.
So I enjoyed those years of raising my daughter up.
The issue of abortion came back into my life when I was working for my church for a year.
I was doing a voluntary year at my church.
I came in because at my church they used to rent out rooms to the local Council.
And there was a sign on the door and it said „pregnancy decision making meeting“
in room three.
And my heart was grieved, what decisions are there to be made in pregnancy
and why is this being held in a church.
When I spoke to the people at the church who worked in administration they said:
„You don't know what it is they're talking about.“
But I knew it was abortion and at that moment I had to find a quiet room
and I just wept and I think the Lord really wept through me.
And I felt my heart break for the issue,
for the babies that are being killed and I felt the heart of God actually in that moment.
I started reading about the life of William Wilberforce and was really inspired
because he wrote down his two life goals.
One was to see an end to the transatlantic slave trade.
Now, William Wilberforce was a politician in the UK
and he's been credited actually in history for being
fundamental in ending the transatlantic slave.
So he wrote that down as one of his goals and so I decided to write down my goals
and ending an abortion was one of them.
But that stayed in my journal for a couple of years.
I didn't really do anything until I saw a program,
a conference called the Wilberforce Academy and they were talking about abortion.
So I knew I had to be there.
And I went along and at that conference
I met my now boss from CBR UK.
They showed us a video of an abortion procedure.
And seeing that image, seeing the video of a baby's body being ripped apart,
limb by limb, I knew at that moment that to do nothing was no longer an option.
So after about a year of volunteering I got involved and
I've been working full-time ever since, 10 years.
I'll tell you a little bit more about what they do shortly.
That's so good.
Can you tell me something about your pregnancy.
While you were pregnant, was there people or members of your family
or someone who didn't want you to be pregnant anymore?
Who suggested you to do an abortion because of your school, or your college,
or your career, future, or something like that? How was that?
I mean the timing was good.
I guess that I was just coming to the end of my three years.
Although I found out when I was taking my final exams, I think I failed that exam.
But I had more or less finished my course.
Again I was very blessed that my parents were very supportive because they were Christian.
And as much as it was difficult to tell them, I knew that they wouldn't disown me,
that they would support me.
When I rang them up, I mean they didn't know that I was in a relationship,
so they were disappointed you know, cuz I wasn't in the same city as them.
But when I told them, they were very supportive.
Most of my family were supportive.
I think there was someone who maybe suggested that I have an abortion,
but obviously my parents wouldn't have any of that.
It didn't, as I said, it didn't enter my head because as much as I'd walked away from God
there was still a fear of God deep in my hear.
I knew that, that was something I couldn't do.
And I don't say that to say that I'm great.
I say that because my heart breaks for all the women that haven't been raised with that.
That have been raised and their parents have said, you know don't bring any illegitimate children
into this family and things like that.
Because of the shame…
Exactly, things like that can seal their abortions.
I know women like this, you know, they're my friends.
I can only thank God that by his grace I had support around me
and that I had the knowledge of the truth,
that no matter how challenging a situation is, to kill my child will never solve anything.
God has been great, he's been faithful.
My daughter is now 19 and as I got pregnant at Uni, I've just sent her to University.
So I've come full circle. God has been so great.
Do you raise her as a prolifer, to be a prolifer?
Talk to her about the sanctity of life and everything because of your own…?
Yeah, she was probably around nine when I got into this work,
so she had seen the images and it's just being raised up with that.
It's just obvious to her that this is an evil.
Can you please tell us something about the CBR UK, what do you do?
I know about the pictures and everything and we met each other and at 2014,
it was 10 years ago now in London.
I was really thrilled talking to you about your work,
so can you please explain to us how is it going on there?
Our main thing is education.
We believe that the reason so many people in society, in the UK anyway,
are what's called pro-choice, we're talking about that they are pro choice to kill a baby.
But they haven't really understood exactly what that choice is.
And so that's why we believe it's our job and the job of every social reformer
to show the humanity of the victims of abortion, the babies in the womb
and obviously we know the women are the secondary victims.
And to show the reality of abortion.
We use images which is the easiest way to convey that.
Sure we can use words and words are powerful.
But when people see an image of, you know, a baby, a living baby in the womb.
They can't argue with the fact that's a little human being.
Some people may try, because you know they don't want to change their viewpoint on abortion.
But when people see it, they see the eyes, they see the fingers,
they see the toes, as young as seven weeks.
Many people are surprised because they're used to hearing these words like
'oh it's a clump of cells', 'it's pregnancy tissue'.
But when we hold up an image of a living baby in the womb,
even small children will walk past and say 'baby'.
They recognize what it is,
that it's a human being and the images of what happens
to that baby during an abortion expose the injustice.
And so we take these images on big banners like, about two foot by two foot.
We take them into the city center, we hold these banners up.
At the top of the living baby, we have the word 'life'.
At the top of the aborted baby we have the word 'choice question mark',
to show the reality of that choice.
We just simply engage the public walking by.
Many people will stop, have a look, have conversations with us
and it's important to note that we're not protesting abortion,
because none of our literature says 'stop abortion', 'abortion is wrong'.
We're not chanting, we're not shouting or anything.
But when we hold up an image of an aborted baby, abortion protests itself.
We take leaflets and we hand them to the public
and we simply ask what do you think about abortion.
And we allow that conversation to take them to the place where they have to start thinking
about what happens in that abortion procedure.
Is it a human being and is that a human being being killed and if so,
is that something we should be doing as a so-called civilized society.
So, it's very effective, it's very powerful, we see people change their minds.
Obviously, some people walk on by, it's busy city.
Other people do get angry and abuse us because maybe they've been through abortion
or maybe they just don't want to see a change.
We probably all heard that: 'I want right to choose',
whether it's a man who wants the right to get rid of any babies
so that he can have sex without consequences or whether
it's the woman that has believed that lie that somehow it's empowering to women
to be able to kill their babies.
So, we do get some opposition
but we wouldn't be doing this if we didn't see the fruit,
if we didn't see the effectiveness
and we just know that if we can continue to expose what's going on,
then people will change their mind and you can't end an injustice,
you can't change the law, until you've changed public opinion.
Can you please tell us where did you get your pictures for the displays,
because I know on some of them you compare body of the baby with a coin
and it's really effective.
So where did you get them?
The aborted images were got by the Center for bioethical reform in America
and they sent a photography into where abortions were taking place.
They sent the coins, so the actual baby's body part were taken on the coins,
just as a size reference.
They've been signed by an abortionist to say that this is the actual age,
that they're representing.
With the living images we get them from an organization called Education resource fund
and they're a scientific organization that provide resources, so we use their images.
Just to say, with the living images there is the same technology used that Nasa uses
to take images of the moon, because obviously you can't get really close so they piece all.
They take photographs inside the womb and they piece all the images together
to create that whole baby, so it's not an animated picture in any way.
It's a real photograph.
And I think it really has so much effection on a people who passes by.
They are just living their lives and suddenly they have to see
the aborted baby and parts of their body.
Can you please tell us something from the street, some kind of testimony,
maybe first some good and then some bad, one attack or something like that?
And how you take care of your volunteers?
I know you put cameras and you work also with the police.
So a little bit about the working on the street.
In the UK we've got 12 teams around the country in different cities
and each team has a team leader.
And when we asked our teams and our volunteers why is that they chose to work with us,
they said that it's the training they receive,
and they felt they were really looked after.
So it's very important to us that we do everything properly because,
as you know, just being pro-lifers particularly in the UK,
we're already accused of so many false accusations.
Like that we scream murderer or we throw holy water on people outside clinics.
But we simply don't do that and I don't know any pro-lifers in the UK that do that.
But those are lies, so it's very important that we have security cameras
on our displays, we always tell the police when we're going to be doing a display
so they know that we're here.
They'll sometimes come and defend our right to free speech.
Because a lot of times passes by think we have no right to display these images.
Our images have been passed in a court of law to say that we can show them on the street.
So we don't get so much opposition from the police anymore,
since we got that from court.
We do look after our volunteers and training,
as well we train them in pro-life apologetics and that just means that they know how to engage,
how to love the person and speak in a loving tone to the people they meet on the streets.
It's very important for us that is all in place.
And when we're on the streets obviously the most encouraging thing
is always going to be a life saved.
And the first life that I witnessed when I got into this work, we're going back 10 years.
We used to go outside the Department of Health,
which is kind of the government building that make the decisions on health.
And I felt in my heart I wanted to be outside the clinics,
that's where the killing was happening, that's the front lines.
So I took my team outside a place in London called Brixton
and it's called Mary stopes clinic.
A couple of my friends had abortions there in the past,
so it was quite personal to me and to us.
We met a lady that was coming in for her second appointment with the medical pills.
She'd taken the first pill the day before and your viewers may know
that that pill thins the lining of the womb and the baby can come away from the womb
and then it will die because it can't get any further nutrients.
When she comes back for the second pill, the pill will expulse the baby.
So she'd had the first pill, but was coming back for the second pill when she met our volunteers,
saw the images, she changed her mind and she said „I don't want to go through with this“.
We took her to another organization called The Good Council Network
and they scanned the baby and the baby was alive and doing well.
A lot of prayer went up for that baby and that baby was born.
I got to visit the mom and hold that beautiful little baby.
And you know that was 10 years ago, so he's now 10.
It's just so encouraging to see her sharing images of him on social media,
his mothers story and just to know that we had not been there that day,
had his mom not seen those images, he wouldn't be here today.
So the images are very powerful.
That was very encouraging.
We see other stories like that.
We've moved away, we were not typically outside the clinics
cuz sometimes these clinics are in side streets, there's not a lot of people walking by.
So we go to the city center, as well a lot of our teams now.
But I think the Lord also wanted to show me that it's not just the clinics
where you're going to see life saved.
And another day when we were back outside the Department of Health,
a lady came up to me and she said: „Oh I met you six months ago and I saw the images
and then a few months later I got pregnant and I thought about abortion
but then I couldn't get that image out of my mind,
so I decided I can't go through with an abortion.
I'm now 3 months pregnant.
I just want to thank you.“
It was amazing to have that insight because I think most people wouldn't come back
to say thank you.
But I think God wanted me to see that it's not just immediate lives,
but it's future lives.
Because every time we hold up those images, there's people going by on the buses,
there's people walking by, they may not even talk to us.
But just by seeing it now,
they've got a reference point and should they find themselves in a situation,
should a friend of theirs find themselves in that situation, they can speak life,
they can choose life.
And that's the power of the truth, that's the power of the images.
So life saved is always going to be the most encouraging thing.
We also see a lot of changed minds as well.
People who will say: „You know I'm pro-choice.“
And then we sometimes show them the video.
That's when we've actually gone onto the streets and we take film,
so if your viewers want to see that they can see.
And after people see the video of abortion then they go and change their mind.
It's powerful, it's powerful.
There's saying that one picture talks more than thousand words.
Exactly.
So it's really good to have it in your mind,
when you pass by and when something happen to your member of family
or a friend or someone, and you say: „No, no, no, it's not going to look nice, you shouldn't do it.“
That's so good.
And what about attacks, what about some opposition?
The most common thing that people do is they'll try and cover up the images,
so they'll stand in front of them, they'll bring bed sheets or big flags and
try and hide the reality of abortion.
Because it makes them feel uncomfortable and they don't want to change their view.
It makes it difficult for them to have the view,
that they support it when they actually see it,
so that's very common for people to try and cover it up.
We have been attacked in terms of, normally it's pulling the banners,
kicking the banners, ripping the banners.
We've had people spray, paint our banners.
But we always follow this up and we are grateful to the police
who have followed up and held them to account.
We've had the where banners have been destroyed,
we've got the money from the person who destroyed the banner.
So we're pleased to hear that but it's just a form of intimidation to try and close us down.
Obviously people swearing at us, shouting and things like that.
But it all comes with the work.
I'm not excusing their behavior, but when you look back at the history of social reform,
those who want to challenge an injustice that's taking place, they're always hated
and despised by those who want to keep the status quo.
By those who benefit somehow from the injustice at hand.
Whether it was William Wilberforce, whether it was Martin Luther King
and the civil rights movement in America.
These people have been loved and hated at the same time.
I think your viewers who maybe are active pro-lifers can somewhat relate to that.
It comes with the territory.
You said earlier when we were talking that pro-choicers hate two things and what are those?
They hate the truth and they hate prayer.
Even those so 40 Days for life and CBR.
We find that they're the two that are really opposed because prayer is obviously spiritual
and often these people will say they don't even believe in God,
but yet they still want to shut down prayer.
We've had someone in the UK arrested for praying privately in her mind.
Is it Isabelle?
Isabelle, yes.
We had her in our conference last year.
That's what's under attack.
Praying outside abortion clinics.
They're trying to put buffer zones as no doubt.
Isabelle shared and sharing the images.
So that's Satan who's behind the people who try and shut us down.
He doesn't want the truth to come out, he's a liar, he's a deceiver and he's a murderer.
He's been that way since the beginning.
He hates prayer and he hates the truth.
That's why it's so important that we do these two things, because they're powerful.
Because they change public opinion.
They change the spiritual atmosphere
and you know we're going to win if we keep doing these things.
I remember when Isabelle had her testimony
and she said she was in the buffer zone
and she was just standing there and they came up to her and said:
„Are you praying? You know that this is a buffer zone. We know who you are.“
And she said: „No, I'm just thinking.“
„What about?“
And she said: „I don't know, maybe about my sandwich, maybe about the weather.“
And they said: „No, no, no, we know that you're praying.“
And they arrested her and it was so crazy.
She was arrested because of her thoughts. That is so so mad...
I mean it's crazy.
I can't say anything more, but it's crazy.
And they did the same thing, whether it's the same thing
but at the time of the civil rights in America they wouldn't give
Martin Luther King and his people permits.
They said they had to have permits to march and they tried to shut them down.
Again it's nothing new, it's nothing new.
The authorities and those that supporting injustice don't want truth and prayer.
It's always, this is a very tough apostolate
and very rough and it could be very aggressive and we cry a lot and everything.
How do you go through it?
You pray, you read your Bible, you talk to the people who are the same as you
and what can you say that your life would be if you didn't come into the pro-life?
So interesting question.
I've got absolutely no idea what my life would be if I didn't come into this movement
but all I would know is that having had that call,
that kind of seeing it and knowing that I have to do something.
If I ignored that call, my life wouldn't be peaceful,
I would always know that I was walking away from that
and I think as much as we talk about the persecution or the opposition that we get,
there is a joy that comes in it.
And we read that in the Bible where the disciples came back rejoicing
because they were persecuted when Jesus sent them out.
They came back rejoicing that they were persecuted for the sake of the gospel.
And I think there's that joy that together we're working on this,
together we're in this fight for justice, we're in this fight for the kingdom of God
and for the babies and there are rewards when you see fruit from the work
but it's not rewarding work really.
I just think we'll get our reward in heaven because only God knows
how many babies are saved, only God knows.
That volunteer that is out faithfully praying week after week,
that volunteer that is out faithfully showing these images
and sometimes it can feel 'are we having an impact'?
Like, some days sure, you may have a wonderful conversation or you may see a baby saved.
But there's other days where you feel like did I have an impact.
But it's just trusting that you know through the obedience
and through showing these images, through the prayer, we are having an impact.
I think that's what keeps us going, remembering the moments where you have seen fruit
and just being faithful in the little things cuz it's not glamorous work
by any means but it's important.
It's just wonderful to have a team of people where everyone play their role.
There's those that are out faithfully on the street,
there's those in head office that are organizing,
there's the leaders that are preparing, there's those who are training,
there's those who are doing communications
and all together it's necessary because we're a battle of Truth on the ground.
But also in the media.
So what you're doing here in terms of putting us out into the airwaves
is also so important to win this battle.
For truth and for the hearts of the people.
That they will see and wake up to the fact
that we've got a genocide happening on our watch.
We'll be mobilized to join the army and working with us to stop.
How are the laws in the UK according to the life?
Our laws in the UK are complicated in that.
Abortion is actually illegal. People don't realize abortion is illegal in the UK
under the 1864 offenses against the person act.
However, what they did in 1967 was they brought in the abortion act,
which gave exceptions where women could have an abortion.
So every abortion that takes place in the UK is an exceptional case.
We have 200,000 plus exceptional cases every single year.
Most women don't realize, they think we have abortion on demand
but by the letter of the law we we really don't and that's why we've got
pro-abortion politicians and lobbyists trying to scrap that original 1864 part of the act
that protects the unborn child.
As we speak, back in the UK they are trying to, they call it decriminalize abortion,
so that babies will no longer have any protection in the womb.
Currently it's up to 24 weeks and if two doctors sign for it to say that,
normally most of them are under mental health, so they'll say that if the woman continues
with this pregnancy it will impact her mental health.
The forms are pre signed.
Then after 24 weeks a woman can abort her baby all the way up to birth
for any perceived abnormality, whether Down syndrome,
whether even cleft lip pet or if there's deemed a risk to the woman's life.
That's the situation we've got at the moment.
And do you have some contact with a women who already had an abortion
and they say where were you when I had my abortion
or I wish I listen to you or something like that?
Do you have that?
Very early on there was this lady and she came and saw our images and she said,
you could tell visually she was distressed, but she said I didn't know it had fingers,
I didn't know it had toes.
They told me it was just a clump of cellls. If I knew then this my baby might be here today.
As much as every woman doesn't articulate it in that way,
we know that does impact a lot of women and that's why it's so important in the pro-life movement
that we have places that we can point these women to.
We have a project called Pace post abortion support for everyone.
The lady who runs that, she had an abortion back in the 60s and
she helps people go through recovery course
and that is very much bringing the love of God into their lives.
Helping that to come to the place of acknowledgement of what it was that they done
but also then repentance and healing as well.
This is obviously a massive necessary part of the pro-life movement
and these women often go on to share their testimonies
and stories and can be a powerful force for change.
Because as much as the abortion industry is saying that women need abortion,
these women are saying I wish I never had that right, I wish the doctor never
offered me the right to kill my child.
Our heart, as no doubt yours does too, goes out to these women and men as well.
Because men are impacted by abortion as well.
So it's very important that we help, support these women.
What do you tell people who often say to us
„oh it's because you are religious or something like that“?
How do you defend life without using religion language?
For us, because we let the images do the talking,
image isn't really a religious argument.
It's just simply the truth.
People sometimes still say it „oh you're just doing this because you're a Christian“
and then we just point them to our atheist volunteer
and then they'll say like well you're there, it's just a distraction.
It doesn't matter who is making the arguments, they won't agree with.
It's like if it's a man they'll say 'you're just a man' and then
if you say would you like to talk to a female - no.
So it's just a distraction but scientifically human life begins at that point of fertilization
and a sperm is not a human being, an egg is not a human being.
But when they come together at the moment of fertilization
you have a whole unique living human being that's got everything it needs to grow,
unless an abortion comes in and intentionally ends that life.
That's a scientific argument.
So you don't need to be a Christian or have a religious faith to know that killing is wrong.
Most people who don't have a faith would agree with the laws that
prevent murdering born people.
So we're just trying to extend that same right to unborn people.
The problem is obviously that they don't see the unborn person as fully human.
That's why it's our job as pro-lifers to make that argument,
particularly using images and whatever other means we have such as scientific arguments.
Such as the heart starts beating at 21 days.
So many people are not aware of that.
They think that the heart's beating months in cuz some people,
when you ask them, is it wrong to stop a beating heart, they'll say 'well yes'.
And then when you say did you know that their heart starts beating at 21 days?
They didn't have any idea.
That would get rid of most abortions right so the science is fundamental
and I would say where the science fails is it can't tell us who's valuable
and where does value come from.
That's where now that becomes a religious question.
Because if we leave human rights and value of people down to human beings,
that's why throughout history we've seen different groups of people
whether it was the Jews during the time of the Holocaust, whether it was the Africans
at the time of the transatlantic slave trade.
We've seen people groups dehumanized because human beings have tried
to say you're not quite as human or as valuable as us.
That's exactly what we're seeing with the unborn child.
That's why people of faith, particularly Christians, are able to say:
„No. As long as you're human you are made and created in the image of God
and you have inherent value.
It doesn't matter what ethnicity you are, it doesn't matter whether
you're male or female, even the way you choose to live your life“.
That doesn't take away from your inherent value and your inherent right to life
because you're made in the image of your Creator and it doesn't matter what kind
of circumstances surrounding your conception.
Whether you're conceived in rape, whether you were conceived in a loving relationship.
You have inherent value simply because you are here,
you were born, you were living in the womb.
So that's where our value comes from.
And that's a very important topic that we need for any injustice.
How do you recruit your people, your volunteers?
Do you go somewhere and call them to come, or they see you at the street
and they say 'okay, how can I be as you are', or…?
I would say most people are recruited from either presentations,
we go and do presentations to explain about our work.
Often in churches, sometimes in educational places.
And as well as our social media online.
We put lots of videos, we have lots of footage on the street where we interview people.
We put those videos out there.
People come across our work and we encourage them to join the movement,
to get involved where they are.
So those two ways are the ways we reach people.
I would like to ask you personally, where is the source of your strength?
How do you do this all these years?
It is God, it is my faith in God.
Ultimately I work for Him.
I whilst I work for CBR UK,
I'm working for God because I believe that this grieves the heart of God
on the deep level.
We've never seen such a genocide on just simply on the scale that we're seeing.
75 million lives intentionally killed by abortion every year across the world.
It's mass genocide and it grieves the heart of God because these babies,
these human beings who's created for a purpose on earth
don't even get to see the light of day.
So I just gain strength through Him,
through His word, through the friendship of those
on the team working together on this mission.
It's strengthening, encouraging one another when you face opposition from outside,
it is strengthening and this is what helps.
What can you say about the people who get in your organization
and they're non-believers, and they are believers?
What is the main thing why they come? Is it the truth?
We do have some volunteers who are part of our teams on the street, who are not Christian.
You don't have to be a Christian to come and volunteer on our teams.
One particular lady who comes to mind, very faithful, amazing volunteer,
she's a vegan, atheist and she's animal rights.
She's very activist in the animal rights area and she thought to herself
'how can I be kind of campaigning for another species while my own species
is being killed in the womb?'
So she got involved because of that and she actually gets a lot of hate
from the animal rights people for her involvement in pro-life.
I think she sees the contrast because we are very supportive of her
and the different work that she does.
It's truth, she's seen the truth, she's got a soft heart and she believes the truth
and she wants to fight on behalf of these babies and be their voice.
As I said you don't have to be a person of faith or Christian
or another religious faith to want to stand up.
And you said that you have 12 teams in the UK?
Yes.
How do you organize yourself?
Do you say 'today we are coming and we are going to be there for this
and this much of hours' and who can come,
let them come or how do you organize?
Well each team has a team leader, then regional team leader
and they organize when they're going to go out.
They tend to typically go out once a month to their city center.
We have someone who oversees the team, who's doing an amazing job.
She's just encouraging them all, gathering them on zoom or online
to encourage one another, to train each other.
We have annual kind of gathering,
where we all come together and again just encourage one another.
How long do you stay in a particular day, how long are you outside?
For a couple, a few hours, about two hours.
And how many people?
Typically our target is around 10 people, so we have about three people holding the banners,
then we have people handing out leaflets.
We have the team leader, we've actually developed the role of a photo journalist.
So a lot of our teams have photojournalists
and as I say they're just there to film what's happening,
to send it back to us on social media.
So that we can show what's happening, show how public opinion is at the moment.
And we're very sincere about that.
We show those who are pro-choice, we show those who are pro-life
and we're just putting that out there for people to see.
It's our hope that we'll continue to see more and more changed minds
and to see and document that shift in public opinion.
So everyone's got a role. We also have, I think I forgot to mention earlier,
I did say we film our displays just to make sure if one makes any false accusation
against us and it helps deter who would be attackers as well.
And how do you collect the money for your work?
Is it out of donations or some kind of fundraising or…?
Yes, we have individuals from around the country who have seen what we're doing
and encouraged what we're doing.
They maybe want to see an end to an abortion and they believe in our vision and in our mission.
And they support us financially.
Some churches as well will give us support.
Can you tell someone who's out there, why shouldn't they get an abortion
or why should they get involved in a prolife movement?
Just maybe for the end.
I would say if you're pregnant and maybe you don't want to be,
maybe you're in a challenging situation,
just have hope and just know that that is already a living human being, living inside you.
Not just any human being.
That's your own child made in your image but also made in the image of God.
And He has placed that baby inside of you and you are enough to look after that baby.
Even if you can't, there's adoption out there.
But you know your child doesn't deserve the death sentences because
of maybe mistakes that we have made here on earth.
So I would just say there's support out there.
Find, go online, whether it's in Croatia,
I'm sure you can put at the bottom where they can go for help.
In the UK just Google 'support during pregnancy',
I'm sure you'll get some support out there.
Just have your baby and love your baby.
Thank you. And how can you encourage people maybe here in Croatia
to involve in 40 Days for Life, in Croatia for Life, or pro-life movement in our country?
What is the special thing about being in pro-life?
I think it's just caring about life, caring about justice.
Whilst you may feel that this issue hasn't touched you personally,
when there's injustice anywhere, it affects justice everywhere.
I would just say get involved.
I'm sure they can contact you and just be part of this growing pro-life movement
because it is growing.
And be on the right side of history because one day we're going to look back
and you know our children and our children's children going to ask us
what did you do when the biggest genocide was happening?
Did you look away and just get on with your comfortable life
or did you step in the fight and defend these babies and their mothers?
Thank you Ruth so much.
I'm really thrilled to have you here and to talk to you
and I wish you a good time here in our country and hope to see you soon.
Oh thank you so much Lydia, it's been wonderful to be here, to see you again and to be in Croatia.
God bless the work you're doing, it's amazing.
Thank you. Dear followers of the "Croatia for Life" channel,
this is the end of another of our podcast.
We had our dear guest from the United Kingdom, Ruth Rawlins.
Keep following us! Praised Jesus and Mary!